so Darth do you want to give us a
quick overview on the scalable
configuration issue yeah I can do that
can you hear me yes I can hear you okay
perfect  so yeah the issue at the
perfect so yeah the issue at the
moment is that all current Network
related settings are stored in The
Ledger header and this isn't a good
place to store you know the sorbon
settings because they can be quite large
I think the current estimate for meeting
or alone sorry for metering alone is
when kilobyte  so before we go through
when kilobyte so before we go through
the approaches I'll mention that they
all assume the use of dedicated Ledger
entries for storing settings as
described in cap 46-9 and that the
settings will be created on protocol
upgrades the only differences in these
approaches are how the settings
themselves are upgraded
so approach one which is described in
cap 46-9  this requires a mechanism
cap 46-9 this requires a mechanism
for validators to introduce and
distribute setting upgrades directly to
the overlay the validators will then
vote on the hash of the flooded settings
approach 2 allows users to use sorbon to
introduce possible setting upgrades into
the system using arbitrary Ledger
entries allowing validators to vote on
one of these entries to overwrite an
existing setting we use sorbon here so
accurate fees will be charged for the
large for the larger operation and
Ledger entries that will be introduced
there's still a question of how the user
will interact with sore button we can
add a new operation
add a new option to the invoke host
function up or rely on a smart contract
itself to create these entries
approach three is similar to approach
two except that a new Stellar classic
operation will be used to create the
entries that validators will vote to use
to make this Opera to make sure this
operation isn't spanned the idea here is
to make sure the to make the operation
withdraw a large amount of excellent
from The Source account
but this idea needs some additional work
to guarantee that the operation always
has a sufficient balance for the
withdrawal once the operation has been
flooded because you don't want the
operation to get flooded and fail
because the network will have already
flooded the  that doesn't work for the
flooded the that doesn't work for the
operation
so yeah that's the summary of the
three approaches
and I know their their opinions on
all these so the yeah this is Homer
do you have a  do you have any
do you have a do you have any
opinions on what would you  prefer
Sid I have a question
so can you tell us a little bit more
about what is stored in that in these
Network configurations like concretely
and why is it important to preserve
these  that data
so for example from  you know for
so for example from you know for
metering we need  we have different
metering we need we have different
parameters on how specific things get
charged
and so the structure will have you
know say like you know a bunch of
u64s
that that indicate how like specific
settings should be charged and that that
is what sorbonne will use
when deciding how metering should be
used but we want these settings to be
configurable that's why it's not just
hard-coded in soroban  the settings
hard-coded in soroban the settings
will be stored somewhere and which and
the value should be able to upgrade
the settings whenever they want
if all the validators agree
does that make sense
yes
it just it's it doesn't sound like
something that would
change frequently between two subsequent
Legends right but it's more something
like yeah when we'll go to upgrade to
protocol Version Y then we need to make
that update
am I cool we don't want so we don't want
to tie the upgrading of the settings to
protocol upgrades
right  for example right now we can
right for example right now we can
update
I believe like at the Base reserve if
we want to without updating the protocol
right so that we want this to work the
same way
and well I agree that we we won't update
the settings very often it I wouldn't be
surprised if we you know did it twice in
this specific protocol version
it's just it's just generalizing what
we're already doing a letter header to a
much larger number of number like this
it's in a potentially unbounded number
of numbers although it's not it's not
like enormous it's not thousands and
thousands of entries but it's probably
tens or or possibly as much as 100 so
yeah does it make sense to do something
in the in the like of
having an optional field in the
Ledger that would have that data and in
any subsequent
Ledger header just say hey in the in
Ledger number XYZ we've last updated
these parameters
so I mean that's how I think we're
describing is how like current upgrades
currently work
like you just you submit the upgrade
to upgrade specific setting the issue
here is that the the settings can be
quite large right  so it's not it
quite large right so it's not it
doesn't  like you know sending a
doesn't like you know sending a
one kilowatt xdr blob
in the current mechanism wouldn't work
it actually wouldn't work at all next in
the with the current xcr because we have
a limit of I think 128 bytes per upgrade
but which is why we're exploring
like a more scalable solution
Ed can I can I ask you a question about
the other approaches that that are
not approach number one here  in
not approach number one here in
approach number two for example is this
is you you sort of you've got you've got
two things that are in play one of them
is sort of propagating promulgating the
the proposed changes the set of options
and one of them is is
a consensus vote if
people vote on two different config
settings  you know what happens in
settings you know what happens in
approach to like there's still there's
still a consensus conflict resolution
problem  the same as you would have in
problem the same as you would have in
the first one where there's this
arbitrary you know take the largest
upgrade choice that the consensus layer
is doing in approach two what does a
consensus player do if there's if
there's  two con two conflicting votes
there's two con two conflicting votes
it would be the same as what it is today
right like if you if two if there's two
different votes on say the Base reserve
I I don't I don't actually know what
conflict resolution is on the Base
reserve right now my point is that it is
currently happening in the consensus
layer and it approach too it sounds like
you're trying to take it out of the
consensus layer so then oh
I want to say that all the approaches
actually are the same in terms of voting
like in any case what leaders would vote
on the hash of the upgrade set of the
config upgrade set
and the reason for that is that well
we don't want to blow the SCP values as
well
because you have plenty of them and
even the update  upgrades are rare
even the update upgrades are rare
event we don't really want to have huge
spines during this forever
so voting always happens on the hash
of the config upgrade set and the
default mechanism for consensus is that
if you don't agree this is upgrade
evolved against it and then there is not
an upholds yes yeah but so all of this
happens very quickly all this happens
very quickly during the voting round and
I'm not concerned with the the
like I object to this to this  vote
like I object to this to this vote
because that that's not likely to happen
very often unless someone just you know
doesn't schedule their validator it's
it's the combining thing if if validator
a uses  you know arms upgrade
a uses you know arms upgrade
for upgrade  set a and and validator B
for upgrade set a and and validator B
for B then  when someone hears those
for B then when someone hears those
two  or or  nominator here's those
two or or nominator here's those
two or whatever they do a
a value combined right they do a SCP
value combined yeah this is this a not
combinable right like that okay you need
a vote and for the contract upgrades is
a hash of the whole set of upgrades that
need to be upgraded atomically like so
any conflict just fails immediately any
conflict just goes immediately as we
don't try like  in option one I guess
don't try like in option one I guess
it is possible to do something weird
there or you can you know have some
fuzzy matching of the upgrades you know
you say like this operation should take
thousand units of gas and I say it
should take a thousand one unit of gas
and maybe it doesn't matter in sand but
it kind of introduces too much
unnecessary
surface for potential issues and bugs
and sure I'm just saying that looking at
the document that I'm reading right here
it says that the cap picks the largest
upgrades which is arbitrary and requires
some sort of conflict resolution it may
want to only vote for a specific hash so
that sounds to me like a conflict
resolution mechanism but I'm just I'm
just trying to clarify whether that
that's that's real or whether it's yeah
maybe that's not one or
yeah maybe that's how it is but I think
in all approaches  idea for voting is
in all approaches idea for voting is
the same like revolt on the hash of the
whole upgrade set and Valderas have two
agree on this hash exactly
and then the question is normally how we
distribute the premature of this hash
instead I do have a question on  kind
instead I do have a question on kind
of like the implementation burden like
what is  between the different
what is between the different
approaches what is you know what's the
what's the low hanging fruit and what's
what requires like additional
mechanics
I I would so I would say approach to
should be the simplest
correct me if I'm wrong but it
shouldn't be hard to you know add a
function sore bond to you know create
these  entries
these entries
and then you know when the  like any
and then you know when the like any
mechanism to interact with that function
should be simple either a new operation
or the invo coast function up or I think
using smart contract is a little more
complex because I think there's some
some there there are more  details
some there there are more details
around that but I don't think like I
think in my opinion approach to the
simplest approach approach three
yeah I think we have to be careful
and to make sure that it's not spammable
an approach one requires work in the
overlay in the consensus layer
and is the reason approach to is the
simplest because it used it reuses the
metering mechanics that we have in  in
metering mechanics that we have in in
soroban
yeah that's that's the only reason we're
putting it in in sorbon itself
so what does that I I would say I mean
approach one is not hard either in the
series to protect care for that and they
both approaches I don't think there is
too much work anyways
this one problem is  there for
this one problem is there for
surabana too like we figured it out
discussing this
concerns for example
you know by the transactions it install
vasms they can be pretty big too and we
don't want to flood them for free
basically and
I guess in this sense I like it's maybe
not necessarily a very easy problem to
solve but we need to solve it anyways so
kind of option to just piggybacks on
this file with options three I guess we
need to change something in classic
mechanisms to make appropriately so
yeah I kind of from drinks it probably
too is the best it's a long time for the
week
and use the amount of work additional
work required yeah
could you could you speak to the
complexity of the consensus change
that's described in in verse one it says
the consensus changes it would be
complex is that like
because it involves the item fetcher
because we would have to have a second
like like the way we do DX pitching is
that it yeah I mean it's again I I
haven't traveled I haven't triven this
point about consensus layer complexity
it doesn't it's complex per se just
literally reuses the TX set logic but
the except logic is arguably not very
simple either yeah
replicating
yeah I mean on one hand it's trivial
that that we copy something that exists
but we are copying something complex so
maybe it's really better to just use
normal Ledger mechanisms to put this
interest into lecture and  yeah not
interest into lecture and yeah not
bother about I didn't yet another
flooding problem
the one question I have about that is
that
the consensus module has to actually
be able to judge when it has a given
hash right if there's if there's a vote
for hash X it has to then ask The Ledger
hey the hash X actually exist
because I'm not going to vote on a
config setting that I don't have
right like in The Ledger right so this
is this is just moving it from moving
that question from item fetcher over to
a ledger inquiry and that's a
synchronous Ledger inquiry in the middle
of consensus right
yes okay
I have no idea if this is a big problem
or not hopefully are we okay with that I
mean that's kind of the risk of my mind
but  maybe the maybe that's okay I
but maybe the maybe that's okay I
think that's probably less pain
yeah
yeah the thing that is kind of
annoying I mentioned that in the in the
dock with the
approach that relies on on consensus is
that
we would have to to to secure the
upgrades in some way right now
upgrades because they are small we don't
actually
they are not actually  signed so you
they are not actually signed so you
know values in SCP they are actually
signed so that you you if some valid
data all goes Rogue you can basically
blame  you know who introduced that
blame you know who introduced that
the value that is kind of spamming the
validators
so you can basically decide okay I'm
going to remove this validator from my
Quorum set that's kind of the idea
with the signature
upgrades are not  part of this because
upgrades are not part of this because
it's  today they are small  so if we
it's today they are small so if we
start to make to have to and the the
reason for upgrades not being included
in the sign payload is the
there's an option for validator to
remove the upgrade from the value if
they don't agree with it so for you know
so that basically you can still close
ledgers
you know with transactions even if
there is no consensus on the on the
actual upgrades
which  yeah I mean we didn't have
which yeah I mean we didn't have
you know so much of those problems
you know until now there's like  you
you know until now there's like you
know broad agreement on on like for
example if you want to upgrade the
network right to a specific  protocol
network right to a specific protocol
version there was no contention I think
we'll have potentially more contention
in the future as we think of network
parameters that maybe are impacting
certain contracts right like as every
time we change  like fees I mean like
time we change like fees I mean like
the yeah metering schedule right like
we're going to cause maybe certain
contracts to become more expensive
therefore there is maybe a higher chance
of disagreement between  between very
of disagreement between between very
data so I think this  the the chance
data so I think this the the chance
of conflict is higher in you know
post-organ
and  and that's why yeah I think
and and that's why yeah I think
we may have  yeah multiplications
we may have yeah multiplications
where somebody there are going to say
Hey you know I'm I don't agree with this
thing so I'm going to drop that upgrade
and
and then until the conflict is resolved
you don't want to be in a situation
where the network is not agreeing on
basically anything right
anyway so so that's kind of why you can
drop those  those upgrades and
drop those those upgrades and
and right now they are not signed so we
would have to either make them signed
if we want to make them bigger
or just not you know keep them small
and you know that's kind of the option
too
hopefully that makes sense to people
so I do have a question that relates to
the
the user experience of of  changing
the user experience of of changing
the configuration right now you know
validators you know just have like
Stellar core Commands to control this is
the idea to maintain the same experience
across all of these different approaches
or do different approaches mandate
different  user experience
I think I can answer that I mean it's
easier to arm an upgrade for a hash like
it doesn't require any changes because
hash is a small like if you needed to
distribute the whole upgrade set as in
option one and that's durable but it's
annoying like it's annoying to do this
as a or command you need to maybe extend
the command interface to take a file
instead of you know just to get request
or something like this so approaches
like two and following a SIM for
instance because it doesn't require any
exchanges like we say Hey you like you
want to upgrade to this set of configs
with hash X here is a link to the
lectures that actually contains this
entry so I think the distribution is
kind of linear in this it's easier to
arm these upgrades
but it introduces the transactions that
needs to be submitted
yes someone needs to submit a
transaction this is true
yeah so the US does change so in all
approaches right because in the approach
two and three you need to you know
submit this operation  but in approach
submit this operation but in approach
one the the initial set of  upgrades
one the the initial set of upgrades
needs to be distributed as well right
I guess that would be maybe another
solid core command that the validator
would would
would submit and then that that's how
that would be flooded right but to be
honest I I do feel like approach one is
an extension of the current experience
we have which is you know the validators
will coordinate the validators always
need to coordinate regardless outside of
the network right so you know they
coordinate on a Channel right now  you
coordinate on a Channel right now you
know Justin tells people hey if you want
to upgrade or to change this value
you this is the command you use right so
maybe the the
mechanics are going to be a bit
different we're going to say hey this is
you know an xdr take a look at it at a
stellar lab or SDC or whatever and this
is the hash vote on it
so it's still like you you don't
introduce like another
step of
of you know submitting transactions to
the network
well only one person needs to submit the
transaction it's not like value there
was once you know the thing is populated
you know it's basically like today
yeah basically whoever initiates the
upgrade should send the transaction
which I don't think is a huge View
because it's a big thing they need to
propagate any weightages
foreign
got it okay that makes sense yeah by the
way this closes a kind of a a potential
you know
communication problem that we have today
right like today
when we  for example when you know we
when we for example when you know we
as SDF say Hey you know we are proposing
to upgrade the network to you know
version 19 right like we did last year
people look at that message is like
it it and it's not signed we don't
publish that with you know digital
signatures or anything so in theory you
could imagine somebody faking you know
us and then  getting people to vote
us and then getting people to vote
for something else I think the chance of
that again increases as you increase the
complexity of those things that people
are voting on
and the benefit of the
of the having the The Entity that is
kind of championing for a specific
change is that because this is actually
an actual transaction on the network
it's it's also signed by The Entity
so that's kind of you know one of the
extra
pre-free benefit from option two and
three
so essentially a configuration change
proposals become on-chain activity
yeah and  actually so that's something
yeah and actually so that's something
I wanted to kind of maybe because we
didn't talk about that too much like
in in the doc we only kind of mention it
that option two like one of the things I
I think
that this opens the possibility for
in the future to have a
like a point the validators to to like
Ledger entries that are controlled by
those
so that you can
form many validators there's well there
is a concept that we discussed before
right that is actually in a paper that
that was published a few years ago
about the notion of governing and
non-governing validators
and I think this
for certain things this will this may
actually become
like
more interesting  you know in the
more interesting you know in the
context of  yeah Dell's  that are
context of yeah Dell's that are
not the tier one validators
that are kind of managing certain
aspects certain  parameters that you
aspects certain parameters that you
know of the network
and then the the the the validators
that are interested in actively
participating this of course you know
they get to they would not just blindly
vote for those things but otherwise
otherwise other validators just might
do that right for for those
like maybe not as
as coupled to to  to to network
as coupled to to to to network
operators right or maybe even need like
additional voting or something right
and you want that to to happen on chain
because you want more transparency or
something right
got it so yeah it does sound like
there's some added  benefits to
there's some added benefits to
approach too and it seems like from an
implementation perspective it's it's
it's fairly simple do we have any
concern about
you know it's not it's not immediately
obvious that Stellar configuration
changes should be proposed on soroban
it feels a bit like we're using just
sorbon because it's it's there
and you know I don't I don't find it
offensive but but like can there be
you know issues from it and things like
we want to do like in pure stellar and
and now we're introducing them to the
storybond
I think this kind of ties into like
subtopic I wanted to talk about is
whether or not to be as separating sort
of an operations
into like different operations in the
transaction because currently you have
just one golden vocalist function that
does a bunch of stuff and this changes
it would do even more stuff
so I'd say using suraban is just an
implementation detail here
and nothing prevents wake up an option
two from being a separate operation
and also we may want to do this to all
the operations anyway just to you know
have a single flat hierarchy of things
you can do to discover
which basically would make it pretty
opaque in terms of like how exactly
transactions have been executed
I think improves the the X sound would
so I can
so the derived question here is whether
we want to split the invoke host
operation into like multiple types of
cerebon invoking operations yeah right
like in this particular case like I feel
like it's a race a strong case for
making it a separate operation it was
very explicitly namely containing
internal assumptions that you know
people don't randomly submitted and
for all the existing operations  there
for all the existing operations there
is the same consideration I know people
have any opinions on this
would be accessible from from the story
about environment in addition to being
accessible through the this dedicated
operation
no I I mean the same about the current
invoke host function transaction
operations that annoys me and which is
why I'm proposing this is that we are
not actually invoking a host function in
the same way you can invoke it on yeah
from from the contract like they are
Divergent they like the cost functions
that we invoke from Stellar core are not
the same course functions that are more
invoked from contracts so the name
doesn't make too much sense I mean even
though initial intent kind of made sense
but  is there any implementation and
but is there any implementation and
requirements ended up they're not quite
consistent and
the
convinced we should keep it this is in
this cost functional
you know we could just be a bit more
explicit and just say the operations and
the adapter lessons you are doing
without involved in the Waterhouse at
all
yeah my opinion
yeah I think I think the original the
original intent was to make calls
uniform and I think we may be paying a
fairly high price to try to make
two entry paths to call look the same
you know we're sort of orienting
everything in order to make that one
that one path prior to use code
well I think maybe like the this is more
related to  I saw there was like
related to I saw there was like
if we have a dedicated host function for
all this stuff I agree maybe we need to
maybe we need to think about this but
like I I'm not actually convinced that
this is the necessary to have anything
first class for for those Network
upgrades inside suraban like I think we
should be able to point to basically
any saruban State  should be
any saruban State should be
considered valid for  like as long as
considered valid for like as long as
we can you know like I was saying in the
dock like it's basically a byte  you
dock like it's basically a byte you
know a byte array
that we happen to be able to decode
you know using because it's some xdr
right that we can understand that the
network level but that in from a Solomon
point of view I think it's just a byte
array
and if we do it like that there's
nothing special about
like any of that stuff okay this is an
important point that I didn't understand
so from the approach number to your
perspective we're not actually
introducing changes to soroban in order
to facilitate this so what is in the
dock right now  it talks about having
dock right now it talks about having
special Ledger entries that are like
you know so you need like
a host function to basically
manage to the special entries but I'm
not at you know when we originally
discussed that I didn't think we would
actually have dedicated  legendaries
actually have dedicated legendaries
for the for as input to
to  to the upgrade
I thought that at the end yes you
know when the when upgrades are actually
when those network settings are actually
active yes there are special entries on
Ledger but in terms of like how do we
how do you get did they get fed into the
upgrade  function
upgrade function
that I don't think we I don't think
we need to have a dedicated dedicated
Ledger entries you know with that
specific format as input would that be
at that point in the dark was more to
specify that it's not a config setting
entry
I I guess it wasn't you know it wasn't
clear what it actually is because I
wasn't expected out but what Nico's
saying is probably  the best way to do
saying is probably the best way to do
this where we specify that you know for
an upgrade it'd be a byte array of a
config setting entry or a byte array of
a vector of config segment entries right
I'm not sure I'm good at the point
because they don't have an entry like
sent to me it would just be I think with
Nico's things it'd just be a contract
data entry it's not a contract we don't
have a contract so it cannot be contract
data
you know you can no like is anybody like
you know as part of this right like you
can imagine that's why I think like as
if you if you think of
in the future you want to have some
doubts doing that like it's just a
special case like  like if I want to
special case like like if I want to
in the first iteration of this the way
you would do it is you have a dummy
contract you know that has like
State you know associated with it
that is just a single
you know that has a single value in
it and that allows you to to basically
you know as a user I can persist I can
yes like kind of like a balance right
for
you know for token  contract but
you know for token contract but
instead of a balance it's basically a
binary blob
and then in the upgrade  that's how
and then in the upgrade that's how
you get it on The Ledger all right and
then the upgrade just points to that
specific  Ledger entry that contains
specific Ledger entry that contains
the binary problem of Interest
so what do you guys suggesting we would
have a contract specific cost function
no there's nothing specific to this
it's  it's just like yeah to in order
it's it's just like yeah to in order
to construct how how would we vote and
wait like it has to be special right
like a similar proposal and option for
opposite
there needs to be a way like since we
are voting on a hash or something you
need a straightforward way of finding
this hash in The Ledger yeah that's why
you you can you can point to any
arbitrary contract
data right you're using the Ledger key
a hash
yeah you bought an electric key
you would vote on a pair Ledger key hash
probably right like maybe you can make
it work with just a ledger key but like
that I you know for now I I think it's
still a joke
right right
maybe we need to yeah we need we need to
maybe like sketch that a little bit so
that I can so basically you would vote
on say I mean that's quite inefficient
right
I guess the best you can do is contract
80 plus some data ID and accurate format
actually I do but so  I think  I
actually I do but so I think I
think this has been super informative it
sounds like  there's a very strong
sounds like there's a very strong
bias towards  approach number two here
bias towards approach number two here
and there are some details that we
need to figure out like whether this is
actually something that's special cased
in sorobon or it's just a a general
ledger entry and then  the validators
ledger entry and then the validators
is part of the  upgrade process just
is part of the upgrade process just
pointing at this  Ledger team so
pointing at this Ledger team so
let's I think we can take this
conversation offline about the details
and and if needed we can we can bring
these up  in one of the next meetings
these up in one of the next meetings
we have around 20 minutes left
and so before we go on that  Siddharth
and so before we go on that Siddharth
do you think  we have enough to
do you think we have enough to
to keep prototyping here
yeah we should be good
okay
so we don't have a lot of time we
have 20 minutes
and Garand is here today to start
talking about State expiration which is
a very big hairy topic so  garen's
a very big hairy topic so garen's
gonna give a very brief overview about
this today if we have time we're going
to do q a I imagine that we're going to
be talking about these about this
specific issue a few more times so no
big decisions will be made today
during the stages
yeah so I guess  we want the time in
yeah so I guess we want the time in
time so I just wanted to kind of start
out with the general motivation and then
talk about more about the interface and
then we'll leave the implementation
details to probably future conversations
so essentially the issue we're trying to
solve with archival state is this issue
of unbounded Ledger State size at least
right now it's not a classic the number
of Ledger entries we have to store is
growing and there's not a strong
incentive for users to delete entries
additionally a large amount of those
entries that exist on The Ledger are
either outdated or just won't ever be
used again for instance we have a lot of
climbable balances that are more
spam-like entries that aren't used very
often or won't be used at all they're
taking up this Ledger space and
increasing larger bloat and so for the
healthy skill patterns of the network we
want to be able to essentially cap
Ledger State size and not allow for this
arbitrary growth and to do that we want
to essentially delete entries that
aren't being used but somehow not delete
and keep the entries that are being used
often and so in order to do that what we
do is we want to implement this concept
of rent so essentially for all sorbon
smart contract data entries the data
entry will have a rent balance which is
some amount of xlm that is reserved for
that entry to pay a rent fee and then as
that entry lives on The Ledger it will
have a rent fee deducted from that rent
balance and then whenever that entries
rent balance goes to zero the entry is
deleted from The Ledger answers if it
never existed before
now this is obviously  it opens up
now this is obviously it opens up
some issues right so imagine you have a
wallet or a balance that stores a lot of
tokens that are valuable you wouldn't
want this entry to be permanently
deleted and lost just because you forgot
to pay rent and forgot to up to rent
balance and so instead of even though
the entry is permanently deleted from
The Bucket List what we do is we take
that entry and we send it to a special
kind of node called an archiver node
and this archiver node is essentially
storing all of these entries and then if
a user then wants to use an entry that
has defaulted on rent and then been sent
to an archiver node then what they have
to do is they have to go pay a fee and
then retrieve that entry from the
archive node and then give that entry
back to the validators and then once
that fee has been paid the validators
will then take that archive entry put it
back on the bucket list and then this
entry can be used as if it was never
deleted
and so kind of  the implementation
and so kind of the implementation
details as to how this work is the
archive is implemented in a Merkle
tree-like structure and then in order to
restore an entry from the archive and
then put it back on the ledger so it can
be used again you have to provide a
proof of inclusion that this entry that
you say was archived actually does exist
in the archive and so this Merkle
structure is very powerful because it
means that validators are able to check
and make sure that the entry you say is
in the archive is actually legitimate
but the validators don't need to store
the archive all they need to do is store
this root Merkel hash and then they are
able to validate proofs that are
generated from the archive so kind of
high level how this works is the
validators themselves don't store any of
the archive State and cannot produce
these proofs but the archive of the
archive nodes do store the entire
archive State and have enough
information to produce these proofs and
so the archive nodes we kind of Envision
to serve a similar purposes kind of
horizon where they are supporting the
validators but are not directly involved
in consensus
and so from an interface perspective
this has a couple of issues that we kind
of need to discuss especially when it
comes to security
and so because the we want the
validators to store as little State as
this archive is possible
they don't store any of the keys and
they don't know what's in or not in the
archive and so if you can imagine an
example say we have like this token
contract right and you have a balance on
that token contract but you don't use it
and So eventually the rent balance on
that entry will go to zero and that
entry will be deleted from The Ledger
and then stored in the archive now once
you default on rent from the perspective
of the validator it's as if this entry
has never existed before and because the
validator doesn't actually store the
archive it has no way of knowing that
this entry used to be in the bucket list
or that this entry is currently in the
archive and so this means that if say
the smart contract was to create another
balance with that exact same address
this would be allowed right because the
archive or because the validator doesn't
know that this entry and this key exists
in the archive it will create and
generate new keys which means that we
have this issue of key collisions where
you can imagine if this process was
repeated several times it's possible to
have an entry with multiple different
versions of that entry with the exact
same key that exists I'm simultaneously
on The Ledger and also in the archive
now for some types of data these key
collisions aren't that big of a deal
right so if you can imagine if you have
say a balance of some amount of token
with your given key and there are
multiple different balances you have so
say you have 10 xlm in an account and
then that 10xl imbalance gets archived
and then someone sends you another 5xlm
and eventually that entry gets archived
with your key there are two entries in
the archive that corresponds your
balance one with 10 xlm one with 5xlm
but this isn't that big of a deal
because both of them are valid right you
can just restore the 5x on them balance
spend that 5x Alum and then restore the
10 xlm spend that no problem because
both of those balances are valid even
though they have the same key but for
some data types that's not the case
right so if you can imagine a smart
contract implementation that uses a
nonce value so let's say that we have
something like usdc that uses a nonce to
protect against double spends and make
sure that transactions can't be played
say that this nonce value is something
like 10 a non-zero value and then gets
archived well now this token contract
when it needs to do something the token
contract will see that there does not
exist in nonce because from the
perspective of the validators the
contract itself has no way of knowing
what's in the archive because the
contract is running on a validator and
the validation store the archive and so
whenever the contract sees that there
doesn't exist a nonsense on The Ledger
instead of going to the archive and
restoring the nonce with a correct value
of 10 what the contract will do is just
create a new nonce with a value of zero
and so what you can imagine is say that
we have the correct notes value which is
10 in the archive and this new zero
nonce because  this nonce is incorrect
nonce because this nonce is incorrect
and is essentially  shadowing a valid
and is essentially shadowing a valid
version of the nonce in the archive
this allows malicious users to execute a
replay attack because they can take a
transaction that says hey if nonce is
equal to zero this transaction is okay
and even though the correct non's value
in the archive is 10 the knots value on
The Ledger is zero and so they can
replay this transaction and maliciously
use this nonce value
and so we have this challenging problem
that for certain types of values like
nonsense there needs to make sure that
you only have a single version of that
entry between both the bucket list and
the archive
this is a problem because the validators
don't store the archive and so there's
no way of checking if a key exists or
not directly from the archive
so that's issue number one
this thing like nonsense where you want
to make sure there's only one version of
the entry that exists and then the
second or the second issue that comes up
with security is something where you
restore an outdated version of an entry
so  similarly let's think of a token
so similarly let's think of a token
where you have some sort of kyc Entry
right and so say that you have a kyc
entry that allows a user to spend their
tokens and then that kyc entry isn't
touched for a while and So eventually it
runs out rent balance and gets sent to
the archive
now a new kyc entry is generated on the
bucket list but this kyc entry revokes
access to those funds now let's say that
this new kyc entry that revokes access
isn't used for a while and it too falls
into the archive but a malicious user
might do is go into the archive instead
of restoring the most recent version
that revokes access instead restore the
earlier version of that kyc entry that
gives the user access to spend those
funds and so by restoring an out-of-date
entry what you can do is  essentially
entry what you can do is essentially
do a versioning attack where you take an
out of date entry restored onto the
bucket list and then you're essentially
able to pretend as if it is newer than
the kyc entry that revoked access
and so essentially we have two issues we
need to solve here first we need to make
sure that you can only restore the
latest version of an entry so you can't
do this like kyc rollback attack and
second for certain types of data we need
to make sure that there's only one
version that exists in the archive in
the bucket list
now we don't need that guarantee of the
uniqueness guarantee for all types of
data for example  the balance example
data for example the balance example
I talked about earlier it's completely
fine if you have multiple different
balances but for things like nonsense
you need to make sure you only have one
and so essentially because we have these
two different requirements we expose two
different types of storage at the sorbon
interface level right now we're calling
this unique storage and recreatable
storage now essentially the differences
here is that unique storage guarantees
that whatever entry you have there's
only ever one copy of so in our non's
example if you're using unique storage
and you say  you know I use unique
and you say you know I use unique
storage to create announce value and
that Knox value gets sent to the archive
if you try to recreate that value the
function will panic because it says hey
this is unique storage and entry already
exists in the archive so I'm not going
to let you to recreate that
under the hood  how we do that and
under the hood how we do that and
again this is an implementation detail
for later is we use a combination of
proofs of inclusion and also proofs of
exclusion so for instance whenever you
create a unique data entry for the first
time you need to also provide a proof
that this entry has never existed before
and so this proof needs to become from
the archive nodes because the validators
don't store enough information to prove
that something never existed but if you
provide this proof to the validators
they are able to check the proof and
make sure it's legitimate and so because
you have this extra step for Unique data
and needing to prove that nature never
existed it's more expensive
now the recreatable data doesn't have
this guarantee and so for a thing for
entries like nonsense that have security
implementation implications you wouldn't
want to use recreatable data because you
could have multiple versions of your
nonsense and you could recreate nonsense
and have security issues
however  you would want to use
however you would want to use
recreatable data for something like a
balance that doesn't have this issue
because recreatable data is much cheaper
because you don't need the security
guarantees you don't need to provide all
these proofs of exclusion and whenever
you create a recreatable entry you don't
need to prove that's never existed
before
and so essentially we tried to provide
these two classes of data so that users
who need some sort of security guarantee
can use the more expensive and slower
unique data but for entries that don't
require those strict guarantees you can
use recreatable data
now in addition to these two data types
we also introduce a third storage type
called temporary storage and what
temporary storage is is it kind of just
does what's the name sounds like it's
entries that are meant to be temporary
and so essentially if you have a
temporary storage entry whenever its
rent balance goes to zero instead of
being sent to an archive it is
permanently deleted and because you
don't need to worry about sending this
to the archive and there's not this
archival cost the temporary entries are
the least expensive storage type
now you wouldn't want to use this for
sensitive data such as balances because
if a balance defaulted on rent it would
then be lost forever but for temporary
entries such as if you want to give
another user authority to use your funds
for say 100 days you could use a
temporary entry that automatically
deletes itself
or if you had some sort of data that is
easily recreatable such as like a
payment Channel you could also use
temporary data for that because whenever
it was deleted you could just regenerate
the exact same entry again
and so these are the three data types in
the storage mediums we're trying to
present to the end user now the issue is
we have these security issues that are
generated from the archive interface and
they can be very tricky to protect
against for instance it's a very tricky
to think about examples like kyc
rollback and nonce attacks in the
context of this archive especially since
archival state is not only a new
interface for Stellar but a pretty new
interface for blockchains in general and
so we want to provide an interface and
Define use cases as clearly as possible
for each type of storage
and try to make this as seamless as
possible for the end developer and
trying to abstract away as much of the
complexity from the archival interface
as possible
so I think  this is a pretty tricky
so I think this is a pretty tricky
problem
but I think that's the high level
issue I want to talk about today is just
the security issues that arise from this
archival state and then the three types
of storage that we've tried to implement
so far and so I think I'd be open to any
questions or if anyone has anything I'd
like to talk a little bit more in depth
about
bro
thanks for that  just a quick
thanks for that just a quick
question you just you were talking about
unique storage and having to supply
proofs that does that mean that in order
to create a unique storage entry
I need to have access to an archival
node
yeah so essentially how that works is
out when you actually  from the
out when you actually from the
perspective of the validator itself
so yes you do need to have access to a
an archiver node to produce these and so
kind of what we're Imagining the
interface would look like is that RPC
nodes
kind of double as pre-flight nodes
and archiver nodes and so during the
free PreFlight process if you generate a
unique entry or if you want to access an
entry that's in the archive of the
PreFlight note itself will carry
archival data and so the PreFlight note
will be able to essentially kind of work
similarly to the footprint when it
generates Footprints for a read write
data accesses that the pre-flight node
will be able to retrieve the proofs that
are required for your transaction and
then  give those Trend or give those
then give those Trend or give those
proofs to the validator and so because
the PreFlight node is generating and
providing these proofs whenever you
actually go to apply that transaction on
the validator the proofs are available
because they've already been made in
advance by the previous flight node
and just a bit here for recreatable
storage I don't need that right yeah so
for recreable storage it's cheaper
because you don't need to provide any
proofs and there's no work to be done
you can just if a key doesn't exist on
The Bucket List you can just generate
that new key without any checks or
balances no problem
well to make an amendment like it's not
like nothing has to be done through a
created both storage because if you want
to benefit from the fact that it's
recreatable you need to write some codes
that allows you to nurse entries for
example if you have a token contract and
your balances are creatable
you probably want to provide a
contract function that allows users to
recreate there is a balance given
approve basically
so like both involve something to be
done but in case of unique storage it
would need to be done every time you
create a new entry while for a tradeable
it's only if your entry has got archived
and you actually want to restore it
which hopefully shouldn't be the case
too frequently
yeah kind of the difference is in unique
storage if something exists on the
archive you must restore it in
recreatable storage if the entry exists
in the archive you have the option of
either restoring it or just  if the
either restoring it or just if the
restore would be too expensive or you
don't want to restore it for some reason
just creating a new entry with the same
key
but but just to be clear  with regards
but but just to be clear with regards
to what Dima just said if I do have an
existing if the Ledger entry has been
recreated with the same key
when I try to restore it right  now
when I try to restore it right now
will it
will it fail or will it like use some
sort of like custom merge capability
what's what's gonna happen yeah so when
it comes to recreatable data there's a
function  that we Define called
function that we Define called
an archive latest version and
essentially how this works is whenever
you restore unique data it's
automatically
add to the bucket list immediately
because unique or for Unique data
because unique data is known to be
unique and so you know you won't have a
key collision between the archive and
the bucket list so you can just
automatically add to the bucket list for
recreatable storage this isn't true
there could be a key collision and so
whenever you restore a recreatable
storage entry
it's not immediately add to the bucket
list but instead this function
restore latest archived entry just
Returns the unarchived version right and
so  in the doc if you look at the last
so in the doc if you look at the last
two pages there are two example
functions on how to restore our
recreatable data
to example implementations that
contract might do but essentially
because of these key collisions it's the
responsibility of the smart contract
implementation to resolve these
collisions and so for instance what you
can do is after you get the restore
latest or the unarchived entry returned
from this function you can check the
bucket list and see if there's a
collision and then if there's no
Collision the smart contract can just
write the key immediately no problem but
if there is a collision then what the
smart contract might do is compare the
values of the recently unarchived
version and the bucket list version and
pick one or discard the other or in the
example of balances there could be some
sort of merge operation defined by the
smart contract and so if you have two
balances  the unarchived behavior
balances the unarchived behavior
might be okay take the unarchived
version sum the balances of the version
that's live on the bucket list and the
recently unarchived version and then
just write the result which is the sum
of those two balances and so because
there are different use cases depending
on the contract that's a contract
implementation that this contract
developer itself might think must think
of
it and is there a I see you have a
section on default implementation
what should be the default
implementation yes I think the the
safest default implementation is just if
there's no key Collision IE if you want
to restore something and there's no key
on the bucket list then you restore it
and add to the bucket list if there is a
collision just panic and fail because
you don't want it to be a no up
because the an archive function does
delete the entry from the archive
right because you can't unarchive and
entry twice from the archive once you've
unarchived it once it's gone forever and
so you won't want to lose entries  if
so you won't want to lose entries if
you can't if there's a key collision and
so I think the safest option
that preserves all the data  is for
that preserves all the data is for
the default just if there's a collision
just panic and then you either have to
wait for the entry that's on the bucket
list to be archived or delete the entry
yourself on the bucket list and then the
default
unarchive will work
okay I imagine there are a lot of
questions unfortunately we are at time
so this discussion is going to
carry on feel free to ask questions on
live chat  Garen if you can hang out
live chat Garen if you can hang out
there and ask any questions and answer
any questions that'll be great
and  yeah thank you all  this has
and yeah thank you all this has
been a very productive hour  and we'll
been a very productive hour and we'll
see you all next week